quiz.properties|name=Supplements~~q_lang=en-US~~a_lang=en-US~~fontsize_q=32~~fontsize_a=30
Butea superba|Butea Superba (Red Kwao Krua) is a herb from Thai medicine sometimes thought to be the male equivalent of Pueraria Mirifica, a phytoestrogen known as White Kwao Krua; evidence for Butea Superba for these claims is lacking. Butea Superba is a tuber vegetable that looks visibly similar to Pueraria Mirifica yet appears to be opposite in effect. This tuber has traditionally been used for the enhancement of male vitality and as an aphrodisiac in Thailand, and appears to be a source of androgenic compounds.~~~~When studies investigated the androgenic effects, there appears to be the classical signs of direct androgenic activation (particularly, an increase in liver enzymes in some studies and growth of male sex organs; a decrease in testosterone levels in serum has been noted possibly due to negative feedback) but unlike its sister herb (Pueraria Mirifica) the bioactives mediating these androgenic effects are not currently known nor are their potencies relative to testosterone known.~~~~Low doses of Butea Superba appear to be safe for human consumption, based on limited evidence, although higher doses have been connected to mutagenicity in mice (300-1000mg/kg, a human equivalent of 48mg/kg or above) and as such are not advisable.~~~~Both studies on Butea Superba and its erectogenic effects appear to have their flaws, so although this herb could potentially be an erectogenic aid it is currently not proven to do so.
Butea monosperma|Butea monosperma is a herb that contains a variety of methoxylated isoflavones, and some of these isoflavones (cajanin) and other bioactives such as medicarpin can preserve bone mass with a potency similar or greater than estrogen itself, although some are nonestrogenic. Butea monosperma is a traditional Indian medicinal tree that also serves as an ornamental tree due to its vibrant red flowers that it bears, resulting in the common name of 'Flame of the Forest'. It appears to mostly be recommended as a general health tonic and for the treatment of liver disorders.~~~~The potential uses for this plant seem wholly different from its traditional uses, as it has shown some potential antidiabetic effects in rats (which need to be further investigated since we have no clue how they exert their benefits at this moment in time) but is most promising for the treatment of osteoporosis. A few flavonoids in this plant (Cajanin and Cladrin in particular) and one other molecule (Medicarpin) are structureally similar to isoflavones, and appear to be very potent at promoting bone health. Studies using these molecules in vitro have noted their effective doses compare with that of estrogen itself and they are just as potent (if not nonsignificantly more potent) at promoting bone growth; despite the potency, medicarpin is only slightly estrogenic and both Cajanin and Cladrin appear to be nonestrogenic.~~~~Cajanin, Cladrin, Medicarpin, and one other flavonoid known as Isoformononetin all appear to be highly active in rats following an oral dose of 10mg/kg (human equivalent of 1.6mg/kg), and have been noted to fully prevent bone losses assocaited with menopause with daily ingestion. Despite the potency observed, however, human studies have not yet been conducted.
Bulbine natalensis|Bulbine Natalensis is a traditionally used aphrodisiac and Testosterone Booster in South and South-Eastern Africa; in rat studies, it appears to both be quite potent in increasing testosterone but also appears to damage organ function in a similar manner to a steroid cycle. Bulbine Natalensis is an herb from Southern and South Eastern Africa that has traditionally been used as an aphrodisiac as well as some other beneficial properties. Due to its influences on cognition and sexuality, it is currently being investigated for its effects on testosterone.~~~~Three separate rat studies looking at serum testosterone levels note significant increases in circulating testosterone, and one study noted a decrease in estrogen levels as well. That being said, adverse effects have been reported on both the liver and kidneys with the exact same dosages seen to increase testosterone.
Bryonia laciniosa|An Ayurveda herb used traditionally as an aphrodisiac and pro-fertility compound, touted to increase masculinity and enhance youthfulness during aging. It belongs to the category of Vrishya rasayana alongside Anacyclus Pyrethrum. Bryonia Laciniosa is an Ayurvedic herb used traditionally as an aphrodisiac and pro-fertility compound, touted to increase masculinity and enhance youthfulness during aging. It belongs to the category of Vrishya rasayana alongside Anacyclus Pyrethrum.~~~~Research on this compound is preliminary, but it appears to be a potential testosterone booster as evidenced by one study done in rats.
Bromelain|Bromelain is an enzyme extracted from pineapples. It can reduce heart burn and act as a nasal decongestant. Bromelain, also called ‘pineapple extract,’ is a combination of several compounds, including a large amount of a special protein-digesting enzyme. This enzyme is able to be digested and thus affect the blood and body, rather than just the stomach and intestines.~~~~When Bromelain is in the stomach, it will help the body break down and digest protein. Supplementation of bromelain can also reduce nasal inflammation, meaning it acts as a decongestant.~~~~If taken between meals, bromelain can benefit the immune system and protect the body from cancer. Bromelain’s effects on fat cells are also under investigation, with promising preliminary evidence.~~~~Bromelain’s anti-inflammatory properties are responsible for several of its effects, including its ability to decongest the nasal cavity. Further research is needed to determine the mechanism through which bromelain survives the digestive system.~~~~There are many anecdotes that say bromelain supplementation will cause semen to taste like pineapple, but no studies have tested this claim.
Brassinosteroids|A bunch of 'plant steroid' molecules (like ecdysteroids are insect steroids) that are present in relatively high amounts in mustard; still nowhere near enough to get jacked off of mustard. Have not been shown to be effective in humans yet, remains an unexplored research field.  Brassinosteroids are a class of steroid compounds found in plants, used to regulate and induce plant growth. They share many similarities with human steroid hormones, but are generally at too low of a dose to exert effects in humans (on hormonal profiles) via food consumption.~~~~They have been implicated in mouse models on skeletal muscle growth, and in some cell lines show promise at being anti-carcinogens (cancer protective).
Brassica vegetables|A group of vegetables that are commonly associated with each other and share some bioactives, such as Diindolylmethane or Sulforaphane. Broccoli, Cauliflower, Brussel Sprouts, and Mustard are Brassica veggies. A family of vegetables known for their anti-cancer and anti-estrogenic properties, as well as just being generally 'healthy'.~~~~They possess a set of compound unique to them, and may exert benefits through doses found in foods rather than supplementation.
Branched Chain Amino Acids|Branched Chain Amino Acids (BCAAs) are three amino acids that benefit muscle growth. They're not only found in supplements, but also in high levels in foods such as eggs or meat, rendering supplementation unnecessary for most people. Branched Chain Amino Acids (BCAAs) refers to three amino acids: leucine, isoleucine, and valine.~~~~For people with low dietary protein intake, BCAA supplementation can promote muscle protein synthesis and increase muscle growth over time. Supplementation can also be used to prevent fatigue in novice athletes.~~~~Leucine plays an important role in muscle protein synthesis, while isoleucine induces glucose uptake into cells. Further research is needed to determine valine’s role in a BCAA supplement.~~~~Supplementing BCAAs prevents a serum decline in BCAAs, which occurs during exercise. A serum decline would normally cause a tryptophan influx into the brain, followed by serotonin production, which causes fatigue.~~~~BCAAs are important to ingest on a daily basis, but many protein sources, such as meat and eggs, already provide BCAAs. Supplementation is unnecessary for people with a sufficiently high protein intake (1-1.5g per kg of bodyweight a day or more).
Boswellia serrata|An Ayurvedic herb also classified as a phytopharmaceutical (H15; Europe) which appears to be quite anti-inflammatory, helpful against osteoarthritis, and may help cerebral edema. Boswellia serrata appears to have preliminary evidence for anti-inflammatory joint disorders. Boswellia Serrata is a gum resin extracted from a tree, which is sometimes burnt (the entire species of Boswellia is commonly known as Frankinsence) as an aromatic or otherwise administered as medicine. It has most usage for medicine in Ayurvedic medicine, some reading into Traditional Chinese Medicine, and its usage extends to the Middle East and other tropical regions.~~~~Boswellia Serrata, via its active boswellic acids, appears to be a novel inhibitory of a pro-inflammatory enzyme called 5-Lipoxygenase and may possess other anti-inflammatory effects (such as nF-kB inhibition, which are not as novel). These anti-inflammatory effects have been investigated for their benefits in osteoarthritis (OA), and it appears that oral Boswellia supplements can suppress pain and immobility associated with OA quite significantly with the effects taking as little as a week to occur. The studies are well conducted, but funded by the producers of the tested supplements. There are limited non-funded interventions with Boswellic for this claim, but they seem to agree with the battery of funded study in effect size.~~~~Remarkably, Boswellia appears to be quite anti-cancer that appears to be more anti-proliferative rather than apoptotic (the latter meaning to induce regulated cell death) since it is a potent inhibitor of angiogenesis and cell invasiveness. There are not a large battery of studies on these claims, but preliminary mouse and rat evidence where the rodents are injected with tumors suggest that Boswellia can potently suppress tumor growth (Pancreatic, Colorectal) and in some cases actually outright prevent tumor growth (Prostatic, Glioma). Boswellia appears to be a very promising anti-cancer herb due to the potency it exhibits in animals, with one study noting this after oral administration (100mg/kg of the main boswellic acid in animals). The potency has been replicated in other cancer cell lines in vitro (including breast, cervical, myeloma and leukemia) but these cancers do not yet have animal interventions yet.~~~~Boswellia appears to be fairly nontoxic, has a history of usage as a phytopharmaceutical for brain edema associated with radiotherapy (a cancer treatment), and the general anti-inflammatory and anti-cancer effects make it a fairly interesting herb relative to others that have subpar evidence.
Boron|Boron is a dietary mineral which is claimed to increase testosterone when supplemented at doses higher than from food.
Boerhaavia diffusa|Boerhaavia diffusa is an herb with anti-cancer and anti-inflammatory properties. Boerhaavia diffusa is an herb found in Ayurveda and other traditional medicines. Historically, Boerhaavia diffusa has been used for its anti-diabetic and diuretic properties. In different areas of the world, Boerhaavia diffusa has also been used for pain relief, anti-inflammation, and treating indigestion. Boerhaavia diffusa is a tropical crawling root plant, with bioactive compounds in both the leaves and roots.~~~~There have not been any human studies conducted on Boerhaavia diffusa, but animal evidence suggests it is an effective diuretic, and can suppress the proliferation of immune cells. This can be harmful in some cases, like during flu season, but beneficial if the immune system is hyperactive. Boerhaavia diffusa also has an anti-proliferative effect on some cancer cells, which means it prevents them from spreading. This anti-cancer effect comes from the isolated bioactive purnavarine.~~~~Boerhaavia diffusa also has anti-oxidant properties.~~~~Boerhaavia diffusa’s anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidative mechanisms are plausible explanations for _Boerhaavia diffusa’s potent anti-diabetic effects, which rivals the potency of standard drugs like Glibenclamide and Metformin. Further research is needed to confirm this relationship.
Blueberry|Blueberries are a fruit that contain a lot of molecules called anthocyanins. These antioxidant compounds are often supplemented for their ability to improve cognition.  Blueberries are a small, blue-purple fruit that belong to the genus vaccinium, which also includes cranberries and bilberries.~~~~Blueberries are a popular food and frequently supplemented. The antioxidant and anthocyanin content of blueberries makes them particularly effective at reducing cognitive decline, supporting cardiovascular health, protecting the liver, and reducing liver fat buildup.~~~~Blueberries may also have a potential nootropic effect. They have been found to improve cognition in people undergoing cognitive decline, but there is also some rodent evidence that suggests blueberries can improve cognition in healthy young people as well. They may also have a role to play in promoting the growth of nervous tissue and reducing neurological inflammation.~~~~Blueberries can be eaten or supplemented through blueberry powder. Isolated anthocyanins are also an effective supplement. Blueberries are both a food product and dietary supplement.
Bladderwrack|Bladderwrack is a species of seaweed known as Fucus vesiculosus that serves as a foodstuff and a source of Fucoxanthin, it is though to increase the metabolism via the thyroid but that is due to fixing iodine deficiencies historically. Bladderwrack (formal name Fucus Vesiculosis) is a brown seaweed which is a good source of iodine (the mineral needed for proper thyroid function) and of various L-fucose compounds.~~~~Said L-fucose compounds can be seen as generally being anti-obesity, anti-inflammatory, anti-oxidant, and anti-carcinogenic. There are also some implications of them being anti-viral and anti-diabetic.~~~~Benefits can be seen from ingesting brown seaweeds as foodstuffs, or by consuming the L-fucose compounds or the seaweed itself in supplemental form; although the latter should be taken alongside food.
Black Pepper|Black Pepper is a source of piperine, a molecule that does not do much on its own but can inhibit enzymes that would attack other molecules. Due to this, it is ingested alongside some supplements to increase their absorption rates and is almost always consumed with curcumin. Black Pepper is a spice commonly used in many areas of the world for flavor. Through its active component Piperine, Black Pepper is able to modify supplement and drug metabolism.~~~~A process in the liver called glucuronidation, which attaches a molecule (glucuronide) to drugs to signal for their urinary excretion, is inhibited with piperine. This process prevents excessive levels of drugs and supplements in the body, but sometimes inhibits all uptake and renders some supplements useless. In the scenario of piperine ingestion, excretion of supplements is hindered and certain drugs and supplements can bypass this regulatory stage (as not all are subject to it).~~~~This is good in some cases, as Piperine is required to give curcumin to the extremities rather than it getting consumed by glucuronidation in the liver. However, in some other cases it can lead to elevated levels of certain drugs in the blood. Again, elevated could be good or bad depending on context; regardless, caution should be taken when approaching this compound.
Black Cohosh|Black Cohosh is the most popular supplement for menopause in North America, but the human studies are mixed. Pretty down the middle, and placebo effect seems to play a great deal in these studies. It holds some benefit for controlling hot flashes and night sweats, but does not appear very potent. Black Cohosh is a herb native to North America that has traditionally been used for cognitive and inflammatory conditions, but has grown in popularity due to it's ability to treat vasomotor symptoms of menopause; primarily hot flashes and night sweats. It is one of the most popular and highest sold supplements in the Western world (10th place in 2008), according to some surveys.~~~~Studies on the matter are highly mixed. The larger body of evidence favors the efficacy of Black Cohosh for treatment of vasomotor symptoms but consists largely of unblinded studies; as the placebo effect can reduce menopausal complaints, blinding is needed. Efficacy has been demonstrated with blinded studies on Black Cohosh as well, but many of them are confounded with consumption of other compounds. A few blinded studies on Black Cohosh without any other compounds have been conducted, and are basically split right down the middle on efficacy if not favoring 'no significant effects' a little bit more due to quality of data and sample size.~~~~Beyond the questionable efficacy, Black Cohosh appears to be safe. It is non-estrogenic (despite being thought to influence estrogen in the past) and may act centrally (in the brain) via serotonin, dopamine or opioids. Stomach upset has been reported and seems to be attributable to Black Cohosh in some people, but reports of liver toxicity do not appear to be related to the Black Cohosh herb. These reports do exist, but they cannot be linked to Black Cohosh logically.
Biotin|Biotin is one of the essential B vitamins used by the body primarily as an enzymatic cofactor. While it is popular as a beauty supplement for hair, skin, and nails and very preliminary evidence suggests it may have a role in these uses, its role is not well supported. Potential interactions with diabetes are also not well understood. Biotin is an essential vitamin that has been grouped with the B-complex vitamins since it was discovered, in yeast alongside other B vitamins. Although it is technically known as vitamin B7, this designation is not too common as it is usually simply referred to as biotin.~~~~It was initially found to be a component of nails, skin, and hair to a relatively high degree. Biotin has been seen as the go-to vitamin for beauty ever since one pilot study in women with brittle nails showed supplementation to be beneficial. It is currently being marketed for improving nail, skin, and hair aesthetics. These claims, however, were not followed up scientifically so there is not much evidence to support biotin's role here. It can plausibly have these actions mechanistically, but there is simply not much evidence that can be used as support.~~~~Beyond that, biotin's general role as an enzymatic cofactor has also led to some research suggesting it may interact with glucose metabolism in the human body. As a general statement it seems that in rodents with a higher circulating biotin level in their blood, the amount of insulin released in response to a glucose test is higher, leading to less elevation of glucose over time. This rodent evidence also suggests that the higher glucose is not met with higher insulin resistance suggesting a potentially beneficial role.~~~~Not too much evidence has been conducted in humans in regard to diabetes, with one study finding that intramuscular biotin was able to attenuate symptoms of neuropathy in three diabetic subjects.~~~~Overall, aside from instances where biotin may be deficient (alcoholism, some epileptic drug therapies, and overconsumption of raw egg whites) the supplement does not have any solid evidence for benefits and may have a role as a beauty supplement pending better evidence.
Betalains|Betalains are a group of reddish pigments found in some fruits where the red anthocyanin compounds (such as pelargonidin) are replaced with betalains; a major component of beet root, it can dye the urine a reddish tint.  Betalain consumption (particularly from beets) can color both the urine and feces red, leading to misdiagnosis of rhabdomyolysis and colon damage if assessed by the naked eye; similarly, frequent consumption of beets may be able to 'mask' the main symptom of rhabdomyolysis which is blood in the urine
Beta-Alanine|Beta-alanine is the building block of carnosine, a molecule that helps buffer acid in muscles, increasing physical performance in the 60–240-second range. Beta-alanine can aid lean-mass gain. Carnosine appears to be an antioxidant and anti-aging compound.  Beta-alanine is a modified version of the amino acid alanine.~~~~Beta-alanine has been shown to enhance muscular endurance. Many people report being able to perform one or two additional reps in the gym when training in sets of 8–15 repetitions. Beta-alanine supplementation can also improve moderate- to high-intensity cardiovascular exercise performance, like rowing or sprinting.~~~~When beta-alanine is ingested, it turns into the molecule carnosine, which acts as an acid buffer in the body. Carnosine is stored in cells and released in response to drops in pH. Increased stores of carnosine can protect against diet-induced drops in pH (which might occur from ketone production in ketosis, for example), as well as offer protection from exercise-induced lactic acid production.~~~~Large doses of beta-alanine may cause a tingling feeling called paresthesia. It is a harmless side effect.
Berberine|Berberine is a alkaloid extracted from a variety of herbs. It is supplemented for its anti-diabetic effects, which rival the potency of some pharmaceuticals, though still require more research for a proper comparison. What is berberine?~~Berberine is an alkaloid extracted from various plants used in traditional Chinese medicine. It's primarily used to reduce insulin resistance and improve biomarkers of type II diabetes such as fasting glucose and glycated hemoglobin. Berberine can activate an enzyme called Adenosine Monophosphate-Activated Protein Kinase (AMPK) while inhibiting Protein-Tyrosine Phosphatase 1B (PTP1B), thus increasing insulin sensitivity. Other possible mechanisms of action include protecting and β-cells, regulating hepatic gluconeogenesis, and reducing inflammatory cytokine signaling.~~~~~~What are the benefits of berberine?~~Human and animal research demonstrates that 1500mg of berberine, taken in three doses of 500mg each, is equally effective as taking 1500mg of metformin or 4mg glibenclamide, two pharmaceuticals for treating type II diabetes. Effectiveness was measured by how well the drugs reduced biomarkers of type II diabetes. It should be noted that although there's a fair bit of research suggesting strong effects of berberine for reducing biomarkers of type II diabetes, it's is still less supported by research than many pharmaceuticals and it's unclear what its long-term effects on mortality and complications are.~~~~Some evidence suggests that it can reduce LDL-cholesterol and triglycerides in type II diabetics, and possibly lead to a small increase in HDL-cholesterol.~~~~~~What are berberine's side-effects and drawbacks?~~Berberine has a high potential to interact with medications, and some interactions may be severe. It is generally safe in normal doses, but more long-term research on its safety is needed. Gastrointestinal upset can occur when high doses are used, and due to its ability to reduce blood sugar, it may increase the risk for hypoglycemia in high doses, though this isn't a common occurance.~~~~~~Is berberine safe to take?~~Tentatively, yes, but a doctor's guidance is highly recommended. Berberine has been the subject of much research and seems to be potent like many pharmaceuticals, but unlike the most well-researched pharmaceuticals, its long-term safety and frequent adverse effects haven't been sufficiently evaluated.
Benfotiamine|Benfotiamine is a relative of the vitamin Thiamine (B1) that appears to have a therapeutic role in pain reduction and diabetic complications (neuropathies and nephropathies); confers bioavailable Vitamin B1 after oral ingestion.
Beet Root|Beet root (usually as juice) is a supplement with a high nitrate content that is said to improve physical performance secondary to nitric oxide. It appears to have some evidence for this claim in healthy athletes.
Basella alba|Basella Alba is a herb used commonly alongside Hibiscus macranthus for the purpose of fertility. The combination has been found to increase testosterone in rats, and Basella appears to be more active in this regard.
Banaba Leaf|Lagerstroemia, also known as Banaba, is a plant whose leaves have been used for anti-diabetic purposes. It contains a variety of molecules such as corosolic acid which may confer benefit to glucose control. Lagerstroemia is the species of plant commonly known as Banaba. It is a herb with a blend of compounds that, holistically, seem to be catered towards being anti-diabetic in nature.~~~~It can inhibit uptake (digestion and absorption) of carbohydrates to a degree, and can also aid in their deposition into cells from the blood stream (resulting in a reduction in blood sugar).
Bacopa monnieri|Bacopa monnieri is a nootropic herb that has been used in traditional medicine for longevity and cognitive enhancement. Supplementation can reduce anxiety and improve memory formation. Bacopa monnieri, commonly known as water hyssop, is an herb often used in Ayurveda.~~~~Supplementing Bacopa monnieri has been shown to improve cognition, by means of reducing anxiety. It is also reliable for improving memory formation. Though effects of this nature are usually studied in the elderly, Bacopa monnieri appears to affect young people as well, making it a useful nootropic.~~~~Since Bacopa monnieri is also an adaptogen, a relaxed person might experience a lack of motivation to work after supplementation. Theoretically, pairing Bacopa monnieri with a stimulant would ward off malaise, but this combination has not been tested.~~~~Bacopa monnieri interacts with the dopamine and serotonergic systems, but its main mechanism concerns promoting neuron communication. It does this by enhancing the rate at which the nervous system can communicate by increasing the growth of nerve endings, also called dendrites. Bacopa monnieri is also an antioxidant.~~~~Taking Bacopa monnieri on an empty stomach may cause nausea, cramping, bloating, and diarrhea.
BPC-157|BPC-157 is a synthetic peptide that is being investigated for its regenerative effects. It shows high efficacy for rats suffering toxic or surgical trauma, but there is currently no evidence that it provides benefits for people.~~BPC-157 is a peptide chain consisting of 15 amino acids. It is considered synthetic because this particular sequence does not exist in nature. It is derived from a protective protein found in the stomach.~~~~Researchers have conducted numerous rodent studies on BPC-157 that show it has protective effects extending beyond the stomach and intestinal tract. BPC-157 has been shown to benefit ulcers in the stomach, intestinal damage such as fistulas and inflammatory disorders, bone and joint healing and growth rates, and organ damage. It also has some influences on the brain. Researchers have observed marked protective effects when BPC-157 is administired to rats alongside a research toxin or damaging surgical procedure.~~~~More research is needed to clarify whether BPC-157 has multiple mechanisms of action, but current research suggests BPC-157 influences several growth factors usually involved in angiogenesis (the production of blood vessels) and other factors involved in regeneration following damage.~~~~BPC-157 shows promise, but human studies are needed to demonstrate that these benefits extend beyond research animals.~~~~The majority of studies on BPC-157 are done on rats given injections of the supplement. While BPC-157 is a stable peptide, peptides are a group of compounds that are normally poorly absorbed after oral supplementation, so researchers use injections in rodent studies instead. Furthermore, there is no human evidence for BPC-157 and the majority of the research has been conducted by a single research group. Due to its synthetic nature, there may be legal issues associated with the sale of this supplement in certain regions and it may be banned by some sport organizations.
Ayurveda|Ayurveda is a branch of medicine originating from India that focuses on oral ingestion of herbs and other supplements for optimal health; similar to Traditional Chinese Medicine, these herbs are being validated scientifically for their historical claims. Ayurveda is the branch of traditional medicine which was localized to India and nearby countries, and similar to Traditional Chinese Medicine in that the 'medicines' used traditionally conists of mostly herbs but also some other things that may be bioactive.~~~~The term Ayurveda is derived from 'Ayus' (life) and 'Ved' (knowledge) as was to refer to accumulated knowledge and practise of sustaining and improving human life and the body.~~~~The section devoted to herbs, alchemy, and chemistry is called Rasayan, and is what Ayurvedic supplementation belongs to.
Astragalus membranaceus|Astragalus membranaceus is one of the fifty fundamental herbs in traditional Chinese medicine. It is used for a variety of purposes and supposedly increases lifespan. It has anti-inflammatory effects and is especially beneficial for the kidneys. Astragalus membranaceus is an important herb in traditional Chinese medicine. It has been used in a wide variety of herbal blends and ‘natural’ remedies, including Dang-gui buxue tang, which is Astragalus membranaceus paired with Angelicae Sinensis.~~~~Astragalus membranaceus has been researched for its cardioprotective, anti-inflammatory, and longevity effects.~~~~Though Astragalus membranaceus supplementation has been shown to reduce the metabolic and physical complications of aging, there are currently no studies that show an actual increase in lifespan. The flavonoid content of Astragalus membranaceus may also contribute to its cardioprotective effects. Its polysaccharide content also protects the heart because it is a potent anti-inflammatory agent, and it is able to reduce cholesterol levels, similar to psyllium husk, which is a fiber supplement.~~~~The main mechanism of Astragalus membranaceus is a result of its active ingredients. The main component is astragaloside IV, which has been extracted, isolated and patented under the name TA-65 and marketed as a longevity agent. Unfortunately, astragaloside IV has a low bioavailability, meaning it doesn’t circulate well through the body after being ingested. This means it can only be present in the body at low concentrations. Still, low concentrations of astragaloside IV can provide cardioprotective effects. Several studies done on astragaloside IV have conflicting sources of funding, and while that doesn’t invalidate the results, replication by a third party would go a long way toward confirming the effects of astragaloside IV.~~~~Astragalus membranaceus supplementation can provide a variety of health benefits, but may not actually prolong lifespan. Like resveratrol, Astragalus membranaceus is a compound that adds life to your years, rather than adding years to your life.
Asteracantha longifolia|Asteracantha longifolia (Kokilaaksha) is an ayurvedic aphrodisiac and liver protective agent. Currently, research on this plant is preliminary with limited information on both components of the plant and toxicology. Asteracantha longifolia (synonymous with quite a few other plant and traditional names) is a traditional Indian medicine that is reported to be beneficial against glucose disturbances (Diabetes) and against liver problems; in addition to these two therapeutic claims, it is reported to be a diuretic and an aphrodisiac.~~~~At this moment in time there is not much information on this herb, but it appears to have some interactions with glucose metabolism in the sense that it can augment glycogen synthesis in the liver and muscle tissue (mechanism unknown) and it appears to protect the liver and brain from lipid peroxidation with a potency somewhat comparable to Vitamin E.
Astaxanthin|Astaxanthin is an aquatic carotenoid like fucoxanthin, but is the red pigment in salmon and krill; the most stable of all carotenoids and touted to aid in eye health and inflammation. Limited human evidence, but it appears to be a better carotenoid than the more researched lutein and zeaxanthin. Astaxanthin is a red-pink pigment found in various seafoods, and also in the feathers of flamingos and quails. It is structurally similar to beta-carotene (pro-vitamin A) but has some chemical differences which may be safer.~~~~It seems to be able to improve many blood parameters that could be beneficial to heart disease. At doses of 6-8mg daily, it can decrease the oxidation of LDL cholesterol and prevent it from becoming artherogenic (artery clogging). It can increase general blood flow and reduce blood sugar in diabetics and blood pressure in spontaneously hypertensive rats (humans not studied yet) with no effect on these measures in normal healthy persons.~~~~Additionally, it is also a potent anti-inflammatory and has more anti-oxidant capabilities than vitamin A itself.
Asparagus racemosus|Asparagus racemosus is an herb used in Ayurveda medicine. It is not the commonly consumed vegetable, but it is a related plant. Asparagus racemosus is an herb used in Ayurveda medicine. It is not the vegetable usually called asparagus.~~~~Supplementing Asparagus racemosus will aid digestion, since the plant has anti-ulcer effects. It will also aid the immune system when antibodies are fighting off a threat. Asparagus racemosus also has aphrodisiac, antidepressant and anxiety-reducing effects.~~~~But for anxiety, depression and libido, Asparagus racemosus is outclassed by other herbs. For example, Ashwagandha is more effective at reducing anxiety and depression, while Panax ginseng provides more physical benefits.~~~~Though Asparagus racemosus has been used as a galactagogue to increase breast milk production, this area needs further research before Asparagus racemosus supplementation can be specifically recommended.
Ashwagandha|Ashwagandha has been called the king of Ayurvedic herbs. Limited research suggests that it works well for reducing stress and anxiety. It may also modestly enhance strength performance, improve glucose metabolism, and increase testosterone levels, but more research is needed to confirm this.  What is Ashwagandha?~~Ashwagandha (Withania somnifera) is an herb used in Ayurveda, the traditional medicine of India. Its root has a horsey smell (in Sanskrit, ashva means “horse” and gandha means “smell”) and is said to confer the strength and virility of a horse. Various parts of the plant are used, but the most common in supplements is an extract of its roots.~~~~~~What are Ashwagandha's benefits?~~A number of studies suggest that it has anxiolytic (anti-anxiety) effects; studies are mostly supportive of a notable effect of ashwagandha for this purpose, and it seems to reduce cortisol levels. However, more research is needed before we can have a great deal of confidence in it or know the optimal dose. Ashwagandha may also be able to reduce insomnia, fatigue, and the symptoms of depression, but it hasn't been well-researched for these purposes.~~~~It may increase power output in untrained subjects during resistance exercise and anaerobic running, but this observation is based on a small amount of research and more is needed. It may lead to small reductions in blood glucose, blood pressure, and LDL-cholesterol, while slightly increasing HDL-cholesterol. Additionally, it may modestly increase testosterone and sperm quality in infertile men.~~~~~~What are Ashwagandha's side effects and drawbacks?~~It seems to be safe, but it needs more long-term research that's specifically designed to evaluate its safety. It may cause mild drowsiness and sedation for some people.~~~~~~Can I take Ashwagandha daily?~~This question is difficult to answer because we currently lack a lot of long-term information from clinical trials. Because of its possible drug-like effects on neurotransmission, it's difficult to rule out unintended side-effects or a loss of potency in the long-term. However, what studies we do have generally suggest that the effects of Ashwagandha on stress/anxiety continually improve for at least for two months after the beginning of daily supplementation. Furthermore, the studies use Ashwagandha daily, and if a study finds an effect, the best way to get that same effect is to mimic the dose and dosing schedule in the study. Tt is unknown if taking breaks from Ashwagandha or taking it every other day will yield the same effects.
Ascophyllum nodosum|Ascophyllum nodosum is a species of seaweed. It is being investigated for its immunostimulatory properties and it may inhibit carbohydrate absorption after supplementation. Ascophyllum nodosum is a species of seaweed found around the globe. It is one of the many species of seaweed called kelp.~~~~Ascophyllum nodosum contains compounds called phlorotannins, which are unique to seaweed and may be able to inhibit starch and lipid absorption. This effect is very unreliable, to the point where two human studies investigating carbohydrate absorption reported two opposite effects.~~~~Ascophyllum nodosum also contains a compound called ascophyllan, which may have immunostimulatory properties. Ascophyllum nodosum extract has anti-inflammatory properties. Much more research is needed to determine the practical significance of Ascophyllum nodosum supplementation.~~~~Though Ascophyllum nodosum is a healthy food, there is no evidence to support its usefulness as a supplement.
Artichoke Extract|Artichoke Extract (Cynara scolymus) is an extract from the common bulb vegetable that appears to have the ability to stimulate bile secretion; this may underlie a weak reduction in cholesterol and improved fat digestion.
Artemisia iwayomogi|Artemisia iwayomogi (Haninjin) has limited traditional use, but as of late is being investigated for anti-cancer properties. At least one study suggests possible fat-burning effects, and immune-system interactions may be present. Artemisia iwayomogi (Haninjin; the family of artemisia being that of Mugwort) is a herb that is used in part for medicinal effects but for some culinary purposes in Korea, and is in the preliminary stages of research for its benefits.~~~~Currently, there is no human evidence but a few animal studies support that compounds in the water extracts may be potent as an anti-allergic medicine and that a 95% ethanolic extract may possess fat burning properties (via being a PPARδ activatior, a relatively unique mechanism for supplements)
Aronia melanocarpa|Aronia melanocarpa, commonly known as the black chokeberry, is a sour berry with a high anthocyanin and anti-oxidant content. It is being researched for its potential health benefits. Aronia melanocarpa , commonly known as the black chokeberry, is a sour berry being researched for its potential health benefits.~~~~Black chokeberries have a high anthocyanin content. Anthocyanins are the molecules responsible for the blue and red pigments in the berry. Black chokeberries also have more anti-oxidant molecules than blueberries.~~~~Preliminary evidence suggests black chokeberry supplementation can reduce total cholesterol and blood glucose when taken by people with elevated cholesterol and glucose, but further research is needed to confirm this effect.~~~~Black chokeberries do not possess a unique mechanism. The health effects seen with black chokeberry supplementation may be similar to the effects of blueberries and grape seed extract, since black chokeberries also contain cyanidin and procyanidin compounds.~~~~Black chokeberries are a good food choice for people that want to consume more antioxidants and anthocyanins. Personal taste may be an issue, since the berry is sour and astringent.
Arginine|L-Arginine is a conditionally essential amino acid. It is important for blood flow and nitric oxide levels, but oral supplementation may not reliably improve blood flow in humans. L-Arginine is a conditionally essential amino acid found in the diet. It is a dietary supplement used mostly by athletic people because it is the amino acid that directly produces nitric oxide via the nitric oxide synthase enzymes.~~~~It's particularly important during periods of illness and chronic conditions like hypertension and type II diabetes, as these states tend to be characterized by an increase in the enzyme that degrades L-arginine (known as arginase) resulting in a transient deficiency; this precedes an increase in blood pressure in these states, and can be partially remedied by an increase in L-arginine intake or resolution of the illness/disease state.~~~~L-arginine is a popular supplement for athletes as it is touted to increase nitric oxide activity in the body. Unfortunately, this effect appears to be unreliable in otherwise healthy adults. While there have been studies that have measured increased effects of nitric oxide (blood flow) they are paired with studies showing no net effects. As for the mechanism, there is reason to believe that this difference is in part due to poor absorption of L-arginine from the intestines before it can reach appreciable activity in the body.~~~~L-Citrulline is another supplementation option because it is converted into arginine in the kidneys. It also has a better absorption rate. Citrulline is able to increase levels of plasma arginine more effective than arginine itself. For long-term health-related supplementation, L-citrulline may be a better supplementation option than L-arginine.
Arachidonic acid|Arachidonic acid (AA) is a fatty acid of the omega-6 class, and is the main fatty acid of interest when referring to an omega-3:6 ratio (relative to fish oil fatty acids). It is proinflammatory and immunosupportive.
Apocynum venetum|Apocynum venetum is a plant that potentially reduces blood pressure and depression after supplementation, though more evidence is needed to confirm these effects. Apocynum venetum, commonly known as luobuma or rafuma, is a small shrub, the leaves of which make a tea that is particularly popular in China.~~~~Apocynum venetum is said to have cardioprotective, diuretic, and sedative properties. Apocynum venetum tea has been found to reduce blood pressure in rodent studies, but there is currently no human evidence for these effects.~~~~Drinking Apocynum venetum tea may also have a minor anti-anxiety effect, and a mild antidepressant effect. Both of these claims are based on animal evidence, with no human evidence available at this time.~~~~Further research is needed to determine Apocynum venetum’s main mechanism.~~~~Though there is minimal human evidence for Apocynum venetum’s effects, it appears to be safe to drink. Apocynum venetum and St. John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum) have some similar bioactive compounds, including hyperforin. This means that Apocynum venetum may have interactions with other drugs, like St. John’s wort does, but this has not been sufficiently tested.
Apigenin|One of the bioflavonoids, apigenin appears to be catered towards reducing anxiety and causing sedation. Found in chamomile tea, alcoholic beverages, and Bacopa Monnieri, apigenin is unstable by itself yet stable when consumed via foods and herbs. Apigenin is a bioflavonoid compound (specifically a flavone) which is found in a wide variety of plants and herbs. It is very abundant in chamomile tea, and exerts anxiety-reducing effects when consumed in these high doses. At even higher doses, it may be sedative.~~~~Apigenin is also a very potent anti-cancer compound. It beneficially protects against a wide variety of cancers with high selectivity for cancer cells as opposed to non-cancerous cells. It also has a very high safety threshold, and active (anti-cancer) doses can be gained through consuming a vegetable and fruit rich diet.
Aniracetam|Aniracetam is a fat-soluble molecule in the racetams family, anecdotally touted to be more potent than Piracetam and more catered to creativity and holistic thinking as well as reducing anxiety and depression. Human studies are lacking. Aniracetam is a compound in the group of racetams due to its common pyrrolidone structure. It is one of the more common Racetamic structures. It is fat-soluble and thus needs to be ingested with fatty acids. Additionally, Aniracetam is cholinergic~~~~Aniracetam acts as a positive modulator of some excitatory receptors known as AMPA receptors and decreases the rate of receptor desensitization. This typically manifests as a controlled and prolonged neurological stimulation effect. Since AMPA receptors differ in structure across the brain, different AMPA modulators affect the brain in different ways.~~~~Anecdotally, Aniracetam has been know to aid in 'collective and holistic thinking', or putting the pieces of the puzzle together. It also increases blood flow and activity in the area of the brain known for this action, the association cortex.~~~~Aniracetam, as an AMPA modulator, is currently being studied for usage in depression and other CNS disorders such as Alzheimer's disease.
Angelica gigas|Angelica gigas is an herb used in traditional Korean medicine, usually by women. It is being studied for its potential anti-cancer and immune-boosting properties. Angelica gigas, also called Dang Gui, is an herb traditionally used in Korean medicine. The plants of the angelica family are used to improve gynecological health.~~~~Though Angelica gigas is often seen as a female supplement, it is also used to improve cardiovascular and immune system health for both men and women.~~~~Preliminary evidence suggests Angelica gigas supplementation may be able to affect hormone levels in a potent way. The herb is also being investigated for its anti-cancer effects, since it may be able to suppress the proliferation and migration of cancer cells. Further research is needed to confirm these effects.~~~~Angelica gigas supplementation increases the level at which B cells reproduce. B cells produce antibodies, so this effect strengthens the immune system.~~~~Angelica gigas is still being researched. It has promise for being used alongside chemotherapy, but more evidence is needed before it can be specifically recommended.
Andrographis paniculata|Andrographis paniculata is an herb frequently used in traditional medicines to treat the common cold.  Andrographis paniculata, commonly known as ‘king of bitters,’ is an herb traditionally used in Ayurveda and Traditional Chinese Medicine.~~~~Andrographis paniculata is used to treat the common cold. It is fairly effective when taken for three to five days after the symptoms first appear. However, there is limited human evidence for the effects of this herb, since research tends to focus on the combination therapy of Andrographis paniculata and Eleutherococcus senticosus, also known as Siberian ginseng, and not on Andrographis paniculata by itself.~~~~Andrographis paniculata has also been studied for its anti-cancer effects. In vitro (outside the body) testing and animal research suggest that Andrographis paniculata has an anti-proliferative effect, meaning it is able to slow the spread of cancer cells. The herb does not appear to be able to induce cancer cell death, however.~~~~The bioactive ingredients of Andrographis paniculata can be traced back to a single diterpene molecule called andrographolide.~~~~Some studies have found that prolonged high-dosage Andrographis paniculata can cause toxicity in the testicles and liver. Further research is needed to confirm these effects, since some follow-up studies, using the same methods, failed to replicate the results. Andrographis paniculata is a promising supplement, though currently it is used most often to alleviate the symptoms of the common cold.
Anatabine|Anatabine is an alkaloid compound found in tobacco and plants in the nightshade family, which includes eggplant and peppers. Anatabine possesses anti-inflammatory properties but further research is needed to determine if supplementation is practical.~~Anatabine is an alkaloid found in tobacco and other plants in the nightshade family.~~~~Anatabine is being researched for its anti-inflammatory properties. Preliminary evidence suggests it may be useful to treat autoimmune diseases and Alzheimer’s disease.~~~~Unfortunately, current research uses doses that are significantly higher than the anatabine supplements available on the market. Oral studies tend to use a dose of 1.6mg/kg of bodyweight for people, which translates to dose between 68-110mg for a 150lb person. One human study even failed to find anti-inflammatory effects at a dose that was 6 – 12 times higher than the doses found in today’s anatabine supplements.~~~~Anatabine’s main mechanism works by inhibiting the signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 protein (STAT3), which inhibits a protein responsible for DNA transcription, called nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (nF-kB). Both Boswellia serrata and Feverfew have a similar mechanism.~~~~Due to limitation of anatabine supplements on the market, it is not a practical anti-inflammatory supplement.
Anacyclus pyrethrum|Anacyclus pyrethrum (Akarkara) is an aphrodisiac herb in ayurveda that is said to enhance male vitality and virility in addition to being a brain tonic. Evidence is preliminary, but it seems to be a profertility agent and testosterone boosting herb with some neuroprotective effects.~~Anacyclus pyrethrum is a pro-fertility and virility enhancing herb that is currently in preliminary testing in rodents. The main bioactives in this plant are the alkylamides (similar to Spilanthes Acmella and Maca), and preliminary evidence seems to confirm its traditional claims of fertility and libido enhancement as well as its role as a 'brain tonic' (since it appears to have anti-amnesiac and anti-convulsive effects).
Alpha-Lipoic Acid|Alpha-lipoic acid (ALA) is a mitochondrial compound involved in energy metabolism. It is commonly taken with L-Carnitine supplements, as they are related in mechanisms. ALA provides a short but potent reduction of oxidation by increasing anti-oxidant enzymes, and may decrease blood glucose acutely.~~Alpha-Lipoic Acid (ALA) is a mitochondrial compound that is highly involved in energy metabolism. It is synthesized in the body and can be consumed through eating meat. It is also minimally present in some fruits and vegetables.~~~~In supplement form, it has shown benefit for various forms of oxidation and inflammation. These effects protect against heart diseases, liver diseases, diabetes, and neurological decline associated with aging.~~~~ALA is a potent anti-oxidant compound. It works with mitochondria and the body's natural anti-oxidant defenses. ALA is also seen as an anti-aging compound since it can reverse some of the oxidant damage related to the effects of aging.
Alpha-GPC|Alpha-glycerophosphocholine (Alpha-GPC or α-GPC) is a cholinergic compound that is used for its cognitive-promoting properties, and to enhance power output in athletes. It appears to also support cellular membranes, and may aid in preventing cognitive decline.~~Alpha-GPC (Alpha-glycerophosphocholine or sometimes just glycerophosphocholine) is a choline-containing supplement that, although found in a variety of food products that are also rich in choline, appears to be pharmacologically active at higher doses.~~~~Alpha-GPC is mostly marketed due to it conferring dietary choline to the body following oral ingestion, and being the most efficient choline prodrug at doing so (able to influence both systemic and brain concentrations of choline). Due to the provision of the other half of the alpha-GPC molecule (glycerophosphate), alpha-GPC also appears to support the structure of cellular membranes, which is not a common mechanism attributed to choline prodrugs (only CDP-choline is associated with lipid membranes in this sense).~~~~Oral supplementation of alpha-GPC is of interest for nootropic purposes, as it appears to have cognitive-enhancing properties (no human evidence exists to support this in otherwise-healthy youth, but it does have support in rodents) and attenuate the rate of cognitive decline in the elderly. In regards to reducing the rate of cognitive decline, alpha-GPC at high doses (1,200 mg) does appear to be somewhat effective in mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease and works nicely with the standard therapy (acetylcholinesterase inhibitors).~~~~Athletes are at times interested in alpha-GPC due to its ability to enhance growth hormone production (of which only acute spikes have been reported so far, so it may fall to the same problems that arginine has on growth hormone) and to enhance power output, which has a lone pilot study in support of 600 mg alpha-GPC prior to exercise. Although ergogenic properties of alpha-GPC cannot be ruled out and look promising, it requires more evidence.
Aloe vera|Aloe vera is a common houseplant that has traditionally been used topically to alleviate burns and pain on the skin. Oral ingestion helps speed up intestinal motility (and has been used against constipation) and aloe vera contains a large amount of antioxidants.~~Aloe vera is a herb traditionally used to ease digestion as a folk remedy, and to alleviate pain from burns when used topically. It has recently gained popularity as an anti-obesity agent.~~~~Preliminary studies show benefit with aloe vera in controlling weight, but the mechanisms do not seem as potent as other anti-obesity supplements. Aloe vera is also a generally healthy compound, but has been implicated in multiple cases of liver problems (which are not too common, although resurgent) and has a lower toxicity threshold than other herbal supplements.
Alanine|Alanine is a non-essential amino acid used in protein synthesis and the regeneration of glucose within the liver via the glucose–alanine cycle.
Agmatine|Agmatine is a metabolite of L-Arginine. It shows promise for alleviating neuropathic pain and drug addiction and shows some potential in protecting against strokes and benefitting cognitive health.~~Agmatine is derived from L-arginine through decarboxylation (the removal of a carboxylic acid group). It is stored in neurons and is released during neuronal activation. Agmatine is considered to be a neurotransmitter and neuromodulator.~~~~Preliminary research suggests agmatine has potential use in the treatment of neuropathic pain and drug addiction. It also protects the brain from toxins and strokes.~~~~Though supplementing agmatine by itself can increase the perception of pain, it works synergistically with painkillers like morphine and fentanyl. Agmatine’s synergy with opioids allows it to reduce pain killer tolerance, the possibility of addiction, and pain itself.~~~~Agmatine has several mechanisms. It can inhibit N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, as well as activate imidazoline receptors. Agmatine can also inhibit nitric oxide synthase enzymes, which allows it to regulate elevated levels of nitric oxide. Agmatine can inhibit calcium channels and certain serotonin receptors as well. Further research is needed to determine the full extent of agmatine’s mechanisms.~~~~There is a lot of animal evidence to suggest agmatine is a highly promising research chemical. It is not a common supplement because there is a lack of human evidence for its effects. Several studies have been done on people, but the majority use agmatine injections, not oral ingestion. Research must establish that agmatine’s effects will work following oral ingestion in order for wide-scale supplementation to be considered.
Aframomum melegueta|Aframomum melegueta (Alligator Pepper, Grains of Paradise) is a herb where the seeds have traditional usage mostly as a pungent spice to season foods with. This herb is botanically in the same family as Ginger and shares many bioactives, and has been (medicinally speaking) traditionally used mostly for digestive and intestinal health with some other sporadic uses not related to food.~~~~When looking at the evidence, most of it is preliminary and a full compositional analysis does not appear to exist at this moment in time. It seems very related to Ginger, and has many of the same bioactives.~~~~Aframomum melegueta appears to have some anti-diabetic and anti-obese mechanisms, although neither are remarkable (the one human study conducted in humans has confirmed an increase in metabolic rate, but required both cold exposure as well as brown fat on the person in question as prerequisites). The aphrodisiac and testosterone boosting properties are both preliminary (with the former not appearing too potent, relative to other herbs) and the anti-estrogen mechanisms are still fairly preliminary and of unknown practical relevance.~~~~Aframomum melegueta may be promising for a spice to add to a diet in hopes of body recomposition and particularly for men, but there is overall a lack of evidence to support its usage as a supplement and higher oral doses may still have some toxicity associated with them (which needs to be more thoroughly investigated)
Adrafinil|Adrafinil is a synthetic nootropic compound. It is a prodrug for modafinil, meaning supplementation of adrafinil leads to increased concentrations of modafinil in the body.~~~~Adrafinil supplementation increases alertness and wakefulness. Adrafinil is a stimulant, but it does not cause hyperactivity. Instead, it fights sleepiness.~~~~Taking adrafinil may also improve memory, but further research is needed to confirm this effect.~~~~Adrafinil works vicariously through modafinil. Further research is needed to determine the exact mechanisms of modafinil, but preliminary evidence suggests histaminergic signaling may play a vital role.~~~~Safety information on adrafinil is lacking because modafinil is often used instead, for treatment of narcolepsy and excessive daytime sleepiness. Long term supplementation of adrafinil is not advised, since adrafinil is metabolized into modafinil in the liver, and there is no available evidence regarding liver safety. Adrafinil and modafinil are banned by the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) as a nonspecific stimulant compound.
